The relation of these aspects is accordingly something of a muddle, having the unity of action illogically split up and the activity of the one side pointlessly shifted over to the other. The universal powers are embodied as individuals, thus having the principle of practical action integral to them, so that what they bring about appears to emanate as fully and freely from them as does anything undertaken by humans. Hence one and the same thing has been done by gods and men alike. How serious a role the powers of the gods play is laughably irrelevant, since they’re in fact comprised in the strength of the individual engaged in action—while the toils and labors of humankind are exercises in futility, since it’s the gods who control everything.
Thus ephemeral mortals, who are as nothing, are nonetheless possessed of a self with such mettle as to captivate these universal beings, offending the gods and above all providing them with actual reality and an interest in what’s done. Conversely, comprised in these otherwise ineffectually universal beings who feed on the talents of humans through whom alone they find something to do is the natural virtue and wherewithal for everything that takes place, [M477] as well as the substantive matter of ethics and the pathos inherent in action. Even when, individualized as free selves, they’re first brought over into the realm of actual interactive reality, the elemental na- tures of the gods nonetheless constitute a manner of universal that stands aloof from such entanglements, remains unconstrained within its specified role, and, by the insu- perable elasticity of its oneness, effaces the discrete identity and distinctive character- istics of the human agent, sustaining only itself while dissolving all that’s individual in the flux of its divine nature.
Much as the gods lapse into this contradictory relation with the self-interested nature antithetic to them, their universality comes into conflict with their own spe- cific character and the way in which it’s related to others. Although they’re eternal re- splendent individuals at repose in their own ambience, affected neither by mortality nor by outside forces, they’re also specific elemental beings: particular gods, who con- sequently exist in relation to others. Yet the gods’ relationship to each other—tensive and hence conflictive—involves a comical forgetfulness of their eternal nature. Al- though what’s specific to each is rooted in a divine mode of subsistence and within its own bounds sustains the independence of full-blown individuality, via this very spe- cificity their characters also lose their sharp distinctiveness and become ambiguously interchangeable.
One aim of the action of the gods, as when directed against some other god and hence against an invincible divine force, amounts to a sort of hit-or-miss, hollow, and hence diffusive blustering that turns the apparent earnestness of action into a risk-free, self-secure game played without consequence or success. –If, however, something negátive of their divinity within the very nature of that divinity (their own specific de- terminacy) shows that their activity is merely inconsequential and has an outcome in- congruous with purpose—and yet that their divinity in its autonomous secureness holds sway over things determinate—then the sheer force of this negativity flies in the face of their divinity, indeed amounting to a supreme power about which they can do nothing.
Even though the powers of the gods are universal and positive as against the in- dividual self of mortals, which scarcely holds out against their might, hovering over them all, over this whole representational world to which the entire substantive con- tent of the ethos belongs, is the self thus common to them all, the [M478] nonconcep- tual abyss of necessity—sheer happening—to which they relate impersonally and ruefully since determinate natures scarcely identify with this manner of purity.
Such necessity nonetheless provides a conceptual unity of sorts—to which the contradictory substantiveness of this representation’s individual moments is subordi- nated, bringing the inconsequential and arbitrary character of the action of the gods into some semblance of order and affording their frolicsome pursuits a seriousness and worth in their own right. The ethical content of this representational world plays its action out for itself in desultory fashion in the middle ground [between gods and hu- mankind], converging upon the individuality of some hero who, for all his strength and splendor, feels his life shattered and gloomily expects an early death. For such in- dividuality as sustains its actual reality from within has here been marginalized to the extreme and split up into moments that haven’t yet been discerned and integrated. The individual who [as god or hero] is abstract and unreal embodies a necessity that has
no place among the common run any more than does the bard, who is a real-life in- dividual yet stands aloof from life and exhausts his identity in his portrayal of it. Both of these extremes have to come closer to the [common human] content—the one (the necessity) having to be fleshed out with it, the other (the words of the bard) having to reflect participation in it—while the content itself, heretofore taken for granted, has to incorporate within it the sure certainty and fixed destiny of the negative.