Where does the spring go that springs away from the ground?
Into an abyss? Yes, as long as we only represent the spring in the
horizon of metaphysical thinking. No, insofar as we spring and let
go. Where to? To where we already have access: the belonging to
Being. Being itself, however, belongs to us; for only with us can
Being be present as Being, that is, become present.
Thus a spring is needed in order to experience authentically the
belonging together of man and Being. This spring is the abruptness
of the unbridged entry into that belonging which alone can grant
a toward-each-other of man and Being, and thus the constellation
of the two. The spring is the abrupt entry into the realm from
which man and Being have already reached each other in their
active nature,l since both are mutually appropriated, extended as a
gift, one to the other. Only the entry into the realm of this mutual
appropriation determines and defines the experience of thinking.
What a curious leap, presumably yielding us the insight that-we
do not reside sufficiently as yet where in reality we already are.
Where are we? In what constellation of Being and man?
Today we no longer need complicated directives, as we did some
years ago, to catch sight of the constellation by virtue of which man
and Being concern each other. Or so it seems. It is enough, one
would think, to say the words "atomic age" in order to let us experience how Being becomes present to us today in the world of
technology. But may we simply equate the world of technology with
Being? Obviously not, not even if we imagine this world as the
1 Heidegger's term is "Wesen." It is used in the verbal meaning of rpP.crLS
rather than the more static meaning of nature or essence. (Tr.)
totality in which atomic energy, the calculating plans of man, and
automation are conjoined. Why does such a directive concerning
the world of technology, even if it were the most circumstantial
description, never let us catch sight of the constellation of Being
and man? Because every analysis of the situation falls in its think·
ing short of the mark, in that the above-mentioned totality of the
world of technology is interpreted in advance in terms of man, as
being of man's making. Technology, conceived in the broadest sense
and in its manifold manifestations, is taken for the plan which
man projects, the plan which finally compels man to decide whether
he will become the servant of his plan or will remain its master.
By this conception of the totality of the technological world, we
reduce everything down to man, and at best come to the point of
calling for an ethics of the technological world. Caught up in this
conception, we confirm our own opinion that technology is of man's
making alone. We fail to hear the claim of Being which speaks in
the essence of technology.
Let us at long last stop conceIvmg technology as something
purely technical, that is, in terms of man and his machines. Let us
listen to the claim placed in our age not only upon man, but also
upon all beings, nature and history, with regard to their Being.
What claim do we have in mind? Our whole human existence
everywhere sees itself challenged-now playfully and now urgently,
now breathlessly and now ponderously-to devote itself to the planning and calculating of every thing_ What speaks in this challenge?
Does it stem merely from man's spontaneous whim? Or are we here
already concerned with beings themselves, in such a way that they
make a claim on us with respect to their aptness to be planned and
calculated? Is it that Being itself is faoed with the challenge of
letting beings appear within the horizon of what is calculable? Indeed. And not only this. To the same degree that Being is challenged, man, too, is challenged, that is, forced to secure all beings
that are his concern as the substance for his planning and calculating; and to carry this manipulation on past all bounds.
The name for the gathering of this challenge which places man
and Being face to face in such a way that they challenge each other
by turns is "the framework." 