Let us imagine a man who could use none of his limbs and hence could, in the ordinary sense, not exercise
his will. He could, however, think and want and communicate his thoughts to someone else. Could
therefore do good or evil through the other man. Then it is clear that ethics would have validity for him, too, and that
he in the ethical sense is the bearer of a will.
Now is there any difference in principle between this will and that which sets the human body in motion?
Or is the mistake here this: even wanting (thinking) is an activity of the will? (And in this sense, indeed, a
man without will would not be alive.)
But can we conceive a being that isn't capable of Will at all, but only of Idea (of seeing for example)? In
some sense this seems impossible. But if it were possible then there could also be a world without ethics.
The World and Life are one. 
Physiological life is of course not "Life". And neither is psychological life. Life is the world.
Ethics does not treat of the world. Ethics must be a condition of the world, like logic.
Ethics and aesthetics are one. 
For it is a fact of logic that wanting does not stand in any logical connexion with its own fulfilment. And it is
also clear that the world of the happy is a different world from the world of the unhappy. 
Is seeing an activity?
Is it possible to will good, to will evil, and not to will?
Or is only he happy who does not will?
"To love one's neighbour" would mean to will!
But can one want and yet not be unhappy if the want does not attain fulfilment? (And this possibility always
exists.)
Is it, according to common conceptions, good to want nothing for one's neighbour, neither good nor evil?
And yet in a certain sense it seems that not wanting is the only good.
Here I am still making crude mistakes! No doubt of that!
It is generally assumed that it is evil to want someone else to be unfortunate. Can this be correct? Can it be
worse than to want him to be fortunate?
Here everything seems to turn, so to speak, on how one wants.
It seems one can't say anything more than: Live happily!
The world of the happy is a different world from that of the unhappy.
The world of the happy is a happy world.
Then can there be a world that is neither happy nor unhappy?
